The main goal of this project is to generate model capable of converting sEMG signals into Pitch, Roll, and Yaw signals to replace the Leap motion dependence for people without forearms. As the time is short, the main objective is to identify a model using initially a person with forearm. The Myo Armband and the Leap Motion are used to measure sEMG of the upper arm, and Position of the forearm respectively to create the desired model. In a next stage and not part of this project, it is to test the proposed model on an individual without forearm.
Before reaching the main goal of the project, it is important to study the anatomy of the body to have a better insight about the human body limitation regarding the position of the sEMG sensor on the upper arm. In addition, it is necessary to study how to use the Leap Motion, and the Myo arm band to generate a LUT to build the desired model input/output. For that, Nodejs is chosen as a scripting software interface to access both devices in order to store the sEMG signal of the upper arm, and the positions of the forearm into a file(LUT) concurrently. Using the Nodejs, and its modules myo, and leapjs, it is possible to create a web application to visualize the 3D forearm and hand model, acquire the signals coming from the sEMG sensor of the Myo armband, and the Pitch, Roll, and Yaw given by the Leap Motion. Once the web interface is created, each sEMG is analyzed by observation and according to the Human anatomy to relate each signal with the Leap Motion signals, for that the LUT file is read using MATLAB to plot and observe the data.
Once the LUT file is generated using Nodejs, and sEMG signal has been assigned to a Leap Motion signal, the model can be identified by Recursive least squares (RLS). This kind of identification is used to build an ARMAX equation of the proposed model (sEMG- Motion). Furthermore, this algorithm is well known to converge rapidly, and filter undesirable noise, and it is used widely to model dynamic systems using recorded input/output data, which in this case are sEMG signals(input) of the upper arm, and positions of the forearm(output), making this algorithm suitable for this kind of system. Moreover, RLS uses low computational power which makes the
model applicable to real time system in which low consumption embedded system can be used, in the future to create new human machine interfaces. It is important to highlight that by replacing the Leap Motion device by the Myo armband not only brings closer people with disabilities to the virtual reality but reduces the computational power that implies to use the Leap Motion that although, powerful, takes a lot of computational performance of the computer on which it is used.
